# Telecom-Data-Analysis-Project-to-Improve-Service-Quality
The Power of Data Science in the Telecom Industry
Business Overview
The past decade has seen exponential growth in the telecommunication industry. The
cost of communication has steadily decreased, and thanks to innovation in the
electronics industry, mobile phones have become affordable and feature-rich.
Telecommunications is one of the most data-intensive industries in the world, generating
vast amounts of data on customers, network performance, operations, and more. In a
hypercompetitive industry, telecommunication companies must differentiate their
offerings and target customers effectively to be profitable and successful. With the
information collected about customer behavior and preferences, data in telecom means
bigger opportunities for telecommunication companies. Using data science in telecom,
telecommunication companies are combining various real time insights like interests,
location, activities with the habits and preferences to achieve unparalleled marketing
power.

Why Data Science in Telecom?
Data Science plays a critical role in the telecommunications industry by leveraging this
data to drive business outcomes, improve customer experience, and increase
operational efficiency.

It enables telecom companies to provide better customer experiences, reduce costs,
increase revenue, and gain a competitive edge.
Problems Faced by Telecom

The problems faced by telecom can be broadly divided into two categories
1. Customer and Service Management
2. Network and Operational Analytics
   
Telecom companies are using Data Science to tackle various business problems. Here
are some of the ways Data Science is being applied in the telecom industry:
1. Customer Analytics: Telecom companies use Data Science to analyze
customer behavior and preferences to personalize offerings, optimize pricing,
reduce churn, and enhance customer satisfaction.
2. Network Optimization: With the help of Data Science, telecom companies can
optimize network performance by predicting network failures, optimizing
bandwidth allocation, and reducing latency.
3. Fraud Detection: Data Science is used to detect and prevent fraud in telecom
billing and other areas, resulting in significant cost savings for the industry.
4. Marketing and Sales: Telecom companies use Data Science to develop
targeted marketing campaigns, analyze sales trends, and identify new revenue
opportunities.
5. Predictive Maintenance: Telecom companies are using Data Science to perform
predictive maintenance on network infrastructure, reducing downtime and
improving network availability.

Aim
To explore the telecom data and find relevant problems faced by telecom operators
Data Description
The telecom company from the US provided the data with 98230 customers over 73
unique features. The features are related to customer demographics, personal
information, and usage.
Tech stack
● Language - Python, SQL
● Cloud - AWS
● Libraries
○ Pandas: For Data Analysis and Manipulation
○ Pyodbc : For connecting with aws cloud to fetch the data
○ Numpy: For performing mathematical operations over data
○ matplotlib, seaborn: For Data visualization
○ scikit-learn : For missing value imputation

Approach
In this series of projects, we will tackle problems faced by telecom companies to help
them to be more agile, customer-focused, and cost-efficient. By leveraging the power of
data, telecom companies can stay ahead of the curve and drive value for their
customers and shareholders.
The first project in the series will give you a brief overview of Data generated by
Telecom companies with respect to customer and service management. We will perform
Exploratory Data Analysis to turn raw data into meaningful insights. These insights then
help us understand what problems a company is facing and eventually we will tackle
those problems. Please note that there will be a separate project to tackle each of the
problem.

Project Takeaways
1. Understanding various problems faced by telecom operators
2. Understanding the importance of Data Science in the Telecom Industry
3. How to load data from AWS SQL using pyodbc and pandas
4. How to merge different tables using SQL
5. Understanding the features in the data
6. Exploratory Data Analysis
7. Outlier detection and imputation
8. Missing value imputation using MICE
